GPLv3 license and copyright information for developers (#388)
SuperDARN/rst: docs/developers_guide/copyright_license.md

<!---
(C) copyright 2019 SuperDARN Canada, University of Saskatchewan 
(C) copyright 2021 The University Centre in Svalbard (UNIS)

authors: Marina Schmidt, SuperDARN Canada
         Emma Bland, UNIS

> This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify

Author: Changing this based on your other suggestion below...
```suggestion
This file is part of the Radar Software Toolkit (RST).

RST is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
```

``` C
/*
(C) copyright <year> of <institution/entity>
(C) copyright <year> of <another institution/entry>

authors: <first and last name>, <institution>
         <first and last name>, <institution>

Modifications: 
           <fist and last name>, <institution> <year-month-day of the modification> : <comment on the change (optional)> 
*/
```

!!! IMPORTANT
    Never remove the existing copyright information from a source file.

#### Minor modifications

Adding copyright notices is appropriate only for __substantial__ modifications. If you make minor modifications to someone else's code (e.g. bug fixes), then you should document this in the modification history (example above), but do not add a new copyright line. 

## Frequently asked questions

__Can RST be released with a different license?__<br/>
To release RST with a different license, we would need permission from all of the copyright holders. This means that, in practice, it would be very difficult to re-license the software. This is by design of the GPL license--it ensures that the software can always be used freely. 

> __Can JHUAPL revoke the GPL license and take back control of RST?__<br/>

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
__Can JHU/APL revoke the GPL license and take back control of RST?__<br/>
```

> No. JHUAPL gave permission for the RST to be re-licensed under the GPL in ~2012 (RST3.5), and they cannot revoke this permission. JHUAPL still owns the copyright to their own code, and RST versions 3.4 and earlier are still licensed by JHUAPL (not under GPL).

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
No. JHU/APL gave permission for the RST to be re-licensed under the GPL in ~2012 (RST3.5), and they cannot revoke this permission. JHU/APL still owns the copyright to their own code, and RST versions 3.4 and earlier are still licensed by JHU/APL (not under GPL).
```

__What happens if I don't include copyright information in my code?__<br/>
In most countries, authors automatically hold the copyright to their own work even if they don't add a copyright notice. This is to protect the rights of people who are not aware of the law. However, omitting copyright information means that:

- You may be breaching your employment contract
- You are not complying with the GPL requirement to include copyright information
- You may not get credit for your work
- It is more difficult for you to prove that you are the copyright holder

__Do I have to include my institution in the copyright line?__<br/>

> That depends on the terms of your employment. Check your employment contract or ask the research office. If you contribute to the RST in your free time, then just put your own name in the copyright line.

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
That depends on the terms of your employment. Check your employment contract or ask the research office. If you contribute to the RST software package in your free time, then just put your own name in the copyright line.
```

__Can I copyright code to a generic "SuperDARN" organization?__<br/>

> No, the copyright holder has to be a legal entity or a person. Your employer may also object to this. If you contribute to the RST in your free time, then just put your own name in the copyright line.

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
No, the copyright holder has to be a legal entity or a person. Your employer may also object to this. If you contribute to the RST software package in your free time, then just put your own name in the copyright line.
```

__Why does every RST source file have license notices at the top? Isn't it sufficient to include the license file in the top-level directory of RST?__<br/>

> Since the GPL allows users to modify and redistribute portions of the RST, it is possible that individual source files might become separated from the license file. If this happens, it will be unclear to users what their legal rights are to use/modify/distribute that version of the code (which is a violation of the GPL). Therefore, all source files should clearly indicate that they are licensed under the GPL (writing "see license.txt" is not sufficient).

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
Since the GPL allows users to modify and redistribute portions of the RST software packages, it is possible that individual source files might become separated from the license file. If this happens, it will be unclear to users what their legal rights are to use/modify/distribute that version of the code (which is a violation of the GPL). Therefore, all source files should clearly indicate that they are licensed under the GPL (writing "see license.txt" is not sufficient).
```

__If I add a new library to the RST, can that library have a different license?__<br/>

> No, the GPL requires that the whole "work" be released with the same license.

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
No, the GPL requires that the whole "work" be released with the same license. Unless licensed under LGPL. 
```

Author: Not sure I understand your suggestion...perhaps my question was a bit unclear. What I meant was whether mixed licensing is allowed (which it is not). We could just delete this question if it's not helpful...?

Reviewer: You can mix licenses with LGPL and GPL but only with GPL project and an LGPL library

> __What are the licensing consequences of copying code from the RST into my own software project?__

Reviewer: "consequences" means an effect the list suggests more what you have to do if you copy the code? Not sure if there is a better more concise word for it.

Author: Good point! Is this better?
```suggestion
__Am I allowed to copy code from the RST into my own software project? What do I have to do to comply with RST's license?__<br/>
```

- You are free to share the software outputs (data files, plots)
- If you choose to share the binaries for your new software: 
    - You must also share the source code
    - Your software must be licensed under GPL (v3 or later)

__I've added code to the RST. Can I also release my code under a different license?__<br/>
Yes, provided that you are the copyright holder of the code, you are free to license it under different non-exclusive licenses ([more info](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html#ReleaseUnderGPLAndNF)). Remember that:

- Once your code is added to the RST, that version of the code is licensed under GPLv3, and you cannot revoke this
- If your software includes other code from the RST (or other GPL-licensed code), your software can only be licensed under GPL. 

__Who owns the outputs of RST (processed data files, plots)?__<br/>
RST outputs belong to the end user who created them. The user is free to share them under any terms, and is not bound by the GPL.

__I have more questions about the GPL__<br/>
There's lots of helpful information [here](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html).

## History of RST licensing

> RST was originally developed at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (JHUAPL). Around 2012, JHUAPL granted permission for RST to be re-licensed so that the SuperDARN community could continue maintaining the software collaboratively. This process has caused confusion over the years, since even scientists who are expert programmers may not be familiar with the intricacies of software licensing and copyright.

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
RST was originally developed at the Johns Hopkins University/Applied Physics Laboratory (JHU/APL). Around 2012, JHU/APL granted permission for RST to be re-licensed so that the SuperDARN community could continue maintaining the software collaboratively. This process has caused confusion over the years, since even scientists who are expert programmers may not be familiar with the intricacies of software licensing and copyright.
```

Since the GPL allows users to modify and redistribute portions of the RST software packages, it is possible that individual source files might become separated from the license file. If this happens, it will be unclear to users what their legal rights are to use/modify/distribute that version of the code (which is a violation of the GPL). Therefore, all source files should clearly indicate that they are licensed under the GPL (writing "see license.txt" is not sufficient).

__If I add a new library to the RST, can that library have a different license?__<br/>
No, the GPL requires that the whole "work" be released with the same license.

__Am I allowed to copy code from the RST into my own software project? What do I have to do to comply with RST's license?__<br/>

- You are free to copy or modify any portion of the RST code
- You are free to share the software outputs (data files, plots)
- If you choose to share the binaries for your new software: 
    - You must also share the source code
    - Your software must be licensed under GPL (v3 or later)

__I've added code to the RST. Can I also release my code under a different license?__<br/>

> Yes, provided that you are the copyright holder of the code, you are free to license it under different non-exclusive licenses ([more info](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html#ReleaseUnderGPLAndNF)). Remember that:
> 
> - Once your code is added to the RST, that version of the code is licensed under GPLv3, and you cannot revoke this
> - If your software includes other code from the RST (or other GPL-licensed code), your software can only be licensed under GPL. 

Author: Updating this to clarify that LGPL can be used for standalone libraries

```suggestion
Yes, provided that you are the copyright holder of the code, and that it is a standalone library (developed outside of RST), you are free to license it under different non-exclusive licenses ([more info](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html#ReleaseUnderGPLAndNF)). Remember that:

- Once your code is added to the RST, that version of the code is licensed under GPLv3 (or LGPL - see previous question), and you cannot revoke this
- If your software includes other code from the RST (or other GPL-licensed code), your software can only be licensed under GPL. 
```
